README.md, before:

# passport-jwt

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/themikenicholson/passport-jwt.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/themikenicholson/passport-jwt)
[![Code Climate](https://codeclimate.com/github/themikenicholson/passport-jwt/badges/gpa.svg)](https://codeclimate.com/github/themikenicholson/passport-jwt)

A [Passport](http://passportjs.org/) strategy for authenticating with a
[JSON Web Token](http://jwt.io).

This module lets you authenticate endpoints using a JSON web token. It is
intended to be used to secure RESTful endpoints without sessions.

## Supported By

If you want to quickly add secure token-based authentication to Node.js apps, feel free to check out Auth0's Node.js SDK and free plan at [auth0.com/overview](https://auth0.com/overview?utm_source=GHsponsor&utm_medium=GHsponsor&utm_campaign=passport-jwt&utm_content=auth) <img alt='Auth0 Logo' src='https://s3.amazonaws.com/passport-jwt-img/Auth0+logo.svg'/>

## Install

    npm install passport-jwt

## Usage

### Configure Strategy

The JWT authentication strategy is constructed as follows:

    new JwtStrategy(options, verify)

`options` is an object literal containing options to control how the token is
extracted from the request or verified.

* `secretOrKey` is a string or buffer containing the secret
  (symmetric) or PEM-encoded public key (asymmetric) for verifying the token's
  signature. REQUIRED unless `secretOrKeyProvider` is provided.
* `secretOrKeyProvider` is a callback in the format `function secretOrKeyProvider(request, rawJwtToken, done)`,
  which should call `done` with a secret or PEM-encoded public key (asymmetric) for the given key and request combination.
  `done` accepts arguments in the format `function done(err, secret)`. Note it is up to the implementer to decode rawJwtToken.
  REQUIRED unless `secretOrKey` is provided.
* `jwtFromRequest` (REQUIRED) Function that accepts a request as the only
  parameter and returns either the JWT as a string or *null*. See
  [Extracting the JWT from the request](#extracting-the-jwt-from-the-request) for
  more details.
* `issuer`: If defined the token issuer (iss) will be verified against this
  value.
* `audience`: If defined, the token audience (aud) will be verified against
  this value.
* `algorithms`: List of strings with the names of the allowed algorithms. For instance, ["HS256", "HS384"].
* `ignoreExpiration`: if true do not validate the expiration of the token.
* `passReqToCallback`: If true the request will be passed to the verify
  callback. i.e. verify(request, jwt_payload, done_callback).
* `jsonWebTokenOptions`: passport-jwt is verifying the token using [jsonwebtoken](https://github.com/auth0/node-jsonwebtoken).
Pass here an options object for any other option you can pass the jsonwebtoken verifier. (i.e maxAge)

`verify` is a function with the parameters `verify(jwt_payload, done)`

* `jwt_payload` is an object literal containing the decoded JWT payload.
* `done` is a passport error first callback accepting arguments
  done(error, user, info)

An example configuration which reads the JWT from the http
Authorization header with the scheme 'bearer':

```js
var JwtStrategy = require('passport-jwt').Strategy,
    ExtractJwt = require('passport-jwt').ExtractJwt;
var opts = {}
opts.jwtFromRequest = ExtractJwt.fromAuthHeaderAsBearerToken();
opts.secretOrKey = 'secret';
opts.issuer = 'accounts.examplesoft.com';
opts.audience = 'yoursite.net';
passport.use(new JwtStrategy(opts, function(jwt_payload, done) {
    User.findOne({id: jwt_payload.sub}, function(err, user) {
        if (err) {
            return done(err, false);
        }
        if (user) {
            return done(null, user);
        } else {
            return done(null, false);
            // or you could create a new account
        }
    });
}));
```

### Extracting the JWT from the request

There are a number of ways the JWT may be included in a request.  In order to remain as flexible as
possible the JWT is parsed from the request by a user-supplied callback passed in as the
`jwtFromRequest` parameter.  This callback, from now on referred to as an extractor,
accepts a request object as an argument and returns the encoded JWT string or *null*.

#### Included extractors

A number of extractor factory functions are provided in passport-jwt.ExtractJwt. These factory
functions return a new extractor configured with the given parameters.

* ```fromHeader(header_name)``` creates a new extractor that looks for the JWT in the given http
  header
* ```fromBodyField(field_name)``` creates a new extractor that looks for the JWT in the given body
  field.  You must have a body parser configured in order to use this method.
* ```fromUrlQueryParameter(param_name)``` creates a new extractor that looks for the JWT in the given
  URL query parameter.
* ```fromAuthHeaderWithScheme(auth_scheme)``` creates a new extractor that looks for the JWT in the
  authorization header, expecting the scheme to match auth_scheme.
* ```fromAuthHeaderAsBearerToken()``` creates a new extractor that looks for the JWT in the authorization header
  with the scheme 'bearer'
* ```fromExtractors([array of extractor functions])``` creates a new extractor using an array of
  extractors provided. Each extractor is attempted in order until one returns a token.

### Writing a custom extractor function

If the supplied extractors don't meet your needs you can easily provide your own callback. For
example, if you are using the cookie-parser middleware and want to extract the JWT in a cookie
you could use the following function as the argument to the jwtFromRequest option:

```
var cookieExtractor = function(req) {
    var token = null;
    if (req && req.cookies)
    {
        token = req.cookies['jwt'];
    }
    return token;
};
```

### Authenticate requests

Use `passport.authenticate()` specifying `'JWT'` as the strategy.

```js
app.post('/profile', passport.authenticate('jwt', { session: false }),
    function(req, res) {
        res.send(req.user.profile);
    }
);
```

### Include the JWT in requests

The strategy will first check the request for the standard *Authorization*
header. If this header is present and the scheme matches `options.authScheme`
or 'JWT' if no auth scheme was specified then the token will be retrieved from
it. e.g.

    Authorization: JWT JSON_WEB_TOKEN_STRING.....

If the authorization header with the expected scheme is not found, the request
body will be checked for a field matching either `options.tokenBodyField` or
`auth_token` if the option was not specified.

Finally, the URL query parameters will be checked for a field matching either
`options.tokenQueryParameterName` or `auth_token` if the option was not
specified.

## Migrating

The the [Migration Guide](docs/migrating.md) for help upgrading to the latest
major version of passport-jwt

## Tests

    npm install
    npm test

To generate test-coverage reports:

    npm install -g istanbul
    npm run-script testcov
    istanbul report

## License

The [MIT License](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

Copyright (c) 2015 Mike Nicholson

Commit message:

Update `Including JWT` section for extractors
Fixes #138

README.md, after:

# passport-jwt

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/themikenicholson/passport-jwt.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/themikenicholson/passport-jwt)
[![Code Climate](https://codeclimate.com/github/themikenicholson/passport-jwt/badges/gpa.svg)](https://codeclimate.com/github/themikenicholson/passport-jwt)

A [Passport](http://passportjs.org/) strategy for authenticating with a
[JSON Web Token](http://jwt.io).

This module lets you authenticate endpoints using a JSON web token. It is
intended to be used to secure RESTful endpoints without sessions.

## Supported By

If you want to quickly add secure token-based authentication to Node.js apps, feel free to check out Auth0's Node.js SDK and free plan at [auth0.com/overview](https://auth0.com/overview?utm_source=GHsponsor&utm_medium=GHsponsor&utm_campaign=passport-jwt&utm_content=auth) <img alt='Auth0 Logo' src='https://s3.amazonaws.com/passport-jwt-img/Auth0+logo.svg'/>

## Install

    npm install passport-jwt

## Usage

### Configure Strategy

The JWT authentication strategy is constructed as follows:

    new JwtStrategy(options, verify)

`options` is an object literal containing options to control how the token is
extracted from the request or verified.

* `secretOrKey` is a string or buffer containing the secret
  (symmetric) or PEM-encoded public key (asymmetric) for verifying the token's
  signature. REQUIRED unless `secretOrKeyProvider` is provided.
* `secretOrKeyProvider` is a callback in the format `function secretOrKeyProvider(request, rawJwtToken, done)`,
  which should call `done` with a secret or PEM-encoded public key (asymmetric) for the given key and request combination.
  `done` accepts arguments in the format `function done(err, secret)`. Note it is up to the implementer to decode rawJwtToken.
  REQUIRED unless `secretOrKey` is provided.
* `jwtFromRequest` (REQUIRED) Function that accepts a request as the only
  parameter and returns either the JWT as a string or *null*. See
  [Extracting the JWT from the request](#extracting-the-jwt-from-the-request) for
  more details.
* `issuer`: If defined the token issuer (iss) will be verified against this
  value.
* `audience`: If defined, the token audience (aud) will be verified against
  this value.
* `algorithms`: List of strings with the names of the allowed algorithms. For instance, ["HS256", "HS384"].
* `ignoreExpiration`: if true do not validate the expiration of the token.
* `passReqToCallback`: If true the request will be passed to the verify
  callback. i.e. verify(request, jwt_payload, done_callback).
* `jsonWebTokenOptions`: passport-jwt is verifying the token using [jsonwebtoken](https://github.com/auth0/node-jsonwebtoken).
Pass here an options object for any other option you can pass the jsonwebtoken verifier. (i.e maxAge)

`verify` is a function with the parameters `verify(jwt_payload, done)`

* `jwt_payload` is an object literal containing the decoded JWT payload.
* `done` is a passport error first callback accepting arguments
  done(error, user, info)

An example configuration which reads the JWT from the http
Authorization header with the scheme 'bearer':

```js
var JwtStrategy = require('passport-jwt').Strategy,
    ExtractJwt = require('passport-jwt').ExtractJwt;
var opts = {}
opts.jwtFromRequest = ExtractJwt.fromAuthHeaderAsBearerToken();
opts.secretOrKey = 'secret';
opts.issuer = 'accounts.examplesoft.com';
opts.audience = 'yoursite.net';
passport.use(new JwtStrategy(opts, function(jwt_payload, done) {
    User.findOne({id: jwt_payload.sub}, function(err, user) {
        if (err) {
            return done(err, false);
        }
        if (user) {
            return done(null, user);
        } else {
            return done(null, false);
            // or you could create a new account
        }
    });
}));
```

### Extracting the JWT from the request

There are a number of ways the JWT may be included in a request.  In order to remain as flexible as
possible the JWT is parsed from the request by a user-supplied callback passed in as the
`jwtFromRequest` parameter.  This callback, from now on referred to as an extractor,
accepts a request object as an argument and returns the encoded JWT string or *null*.

#### Included extractors

A number of extractor factory functions are provided in passport-jwt.ExtractJwt. These factory
functions return a new extractor configured with the given parameters.

* ```fromHeader(header_name)``` creates a new extractor that looks for the JWT in the given http
  header
* ```fromBodyField(field_name)``` creates a new extractor that looks for the JWT in the given body
  field.  You must have a body parser configured in order to use this method.
* ```fromUrlQueryParameter(param_name)``` creates a new extractor that looks for the JWT in the given
  URL query parameter.
* ```fromAuthHeaderWithScheme(auth_scheme)``` creates a new extractor that looks for the JWT in the
  authorization header, expecting the scheme to match auth_scheme.
* ```fromAuthHeaderAsBearerToken()``` creates a new extractor that looks for the JWT in the authorization header
  with the scheme 'bearer'
* ```fromExtractors([array of extractor functions])``` creates a new extractor using an array of
  extractors provided. Each extractor is attempted in order until one returns a token.

### Writing a custom extractor function

If the supplied extractors don't meet your needs you can easily provide your own callback. For
example, if you are using the cookie-parser middleware and want to extract the JWT in a cookie
you could use the following function as the argument to the jwtFromRequest option:

```
var cookieExtractor = function(req) {
    var token = null;
    if (req && req.cookies)
    {
        token = req.cookies['jwt'];
    }
    return token;
};
```

### Authenticate requests

Use `passport.authenticate()` specifying `'JWT'` as the strategy.

```js
app.post('/profile', passport.authenticate('jwt', { session: false }),
    function(req, res) {
        res.send(req.user.profile);
    }
);
```

### Include the JWT in requests

The method of including a JWT in a request depends entirely on the extractor
function you choose. For example, if you use the `fromAuthHeaderAsBearerToken`
extractor, you would include an `Authorization` header in your request with the
scheme set to `bearer`. e.g.

    Authorization: bearer JSON_WEB_TOKEN_STRING.....

## Migrating

The the [Migration Guide](docs/migrating.md) for help upgrading to the latest
major version of passport-jwt

## Tests

    npm install
    npm test

To generate test-coverage reports:

    npm install -g istanbul
    npm run-script testcov
    istanbul report

## License

The [MIT License](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

Copyright (c) 2015 Mike Nicholson
